From these saplings : [[Economic benefits]],  [[Cargo Benefits]]

Rail roads have massive benefits in NC economy, infrastructure, job market, and population growth. Railroad provide major benefits to local and rural economies and a very significant way. The most effect they have on these economies is in the form of short line tracks like the light rail in Charlotte. Short line rail roads are usually made from pre existing rail roads tracks that have been retired or abandoned. This usage can prevent adverse economic effects like gross business volume reduction, personal income reduction, and even property value reduction which was talked about in another sapling. They also offer provide improved customer service which is usually where bigger companies fall behind just do to how big they are. There is a much more personal touch with smaller companies. Just the Prescence of rails in an area can stimulate the economy in direct ways such as rail way jobs but also indirectly like adding support to agriculture fields, lumber and logging, and manufacturing which also create employment opportunities at these companies to help support new shipping opportunities. Railways services are also great about  keeping labor costs associated with services within the local economy which can increase the spending power of local residents. There is also the freight rail side which offers a lot of benefits. Rail systems in NC are a crucial and fundamental part of the travel of goods to different counties and municipalities. As previously stated, rail lines in NC have shipped over 45 million tons of cargo each year to locations in NC. this include crucial supplies, food, and construction materials. If we can expand this into more locations it will create massive benefits to local communities. Like with the plan to expand lines into Ashville as well as the edition of the western route from my notes. 860 businesses in NC currently load directly onto railways. With the addition of new railways this could open up whole new areas to this possibility for cargo transport and create more new jobs and forms of income for smaller communities. Cargo is currently unloaded in charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro, Hillsborough, and Raleigh. These are some of the most populated regions in the state. I don't think that is a coincidence but it is due to the fact that this is where good leave from or go to. There is a distinct relation between rail road goods and services that increases urbanization and can turn rural areas in to more urban areas. While I don't think al rural areas should turn urban because we do need our rural areas for farming and production of these goods, I do think that rural communities should have the opportunity to benefit from this as well. Overall there are massive benefits with using rail systems in North Carolina that one compound when added with other on foot or smaller forms of public transit like cycling routes, which can also help to connect local communities together and instead of taking regular public transit you can cycle to the places you need to go that are local and in your area that the trains cannot take you to. The combination of these two things opens up a rural area to so much mor connectivity and travel within its community.