From these saplings/seeds: [[Further improvements]], [[Growth]], [[The Western Route]], [[The Future]]

Improvements to the piedmont railways are in affect to better transportation as well as connectivity between stations and companies. the map in the renovations shows all improvements that are being made to local and pre existing railways which are beneficial for current commuters and upkeep of the track. But future construction is always necessary to look at in terms of improvements for the state. The western route is a great future improvement that hits smaller urban and rural areas and provides access to the main NC by Rail line. Its a great addition that adds rail to a large southern portion of NC. The western route is  mapped to go through Cary/apex, Sanford, southern pines, and hamlet as opposed to the eastern lines one stop through Fayetteville. While Fayetteville has a higher population there are more stops on the western line which hit areas of a lower income (besides southern pines) which can be beneficial to people that can't afford other ways of travel. It can also help to add economic growth to the area.  The combination of existing un used lines and new CID application will really improve travel for many people. there is also the addition of the eastern line which will run through Fayetteville which is a larger urban area and also feeds and supports many surrounding municipalities in the area. there is also the addition of a new station in Asheville which I feel will be a major improvement. As of now there is no railway service in the mountain region of NC but the addition will create a great opportunity for people and goods to travel quicker and easier through this region. this should bring much more economic growth to the area. While Asheville is relatively urban, the areas around it are somewhat lacking and this should help increase growth and interconnectivity between locations. It would be even better with the implementation of a short line as well. This can help connection on a relatively micro scale in comparison to the rest of the state. There is also a $3.5 million grant given to NCDOT that was given is to help to improve pre exiting railways between Charlotte and Raleigh that way travel can be smoother and quicker. This is to help infrastructure and improve efficiency and overall quality of railway in North Carolina. the goal is to improve rail way crossing to lessen collisions between cars and trains and also to improve actual railways to further smother passenger transport as well as the transport of goods. The addition of the renovations and new railways help to lower emission in urban areas by a significant amount. Only about 2% of all carbon emissions are done by rail compared to the 58% done by light duty vehicles (cars). Increasing rail can help North Carolina to make better environmental choices that benefit the people that live here as well as the environment. These new rail roads and pushes for rail can help North Carolina become a cleaner place.
