From these saplings:[[Population in Relation to Railways]],[[Trends]]


While these two notes are not inherently about railways. If we use our knowledge about railway stations and look at the map on the links to the notes, its obvious to see a trend with higher growth withing counties with railway stations. As mentioned in  [[Rural communities]]:  Urban counties make up 38% of all population growth in NC. I believe there is an obvious correlation between these two things and other notes support this as well. The rural counties within NC make up the majority of population loss and i think this is due to a lack of opportunity but especially a lack of cheap and easy travel to opportunities. If people in rural communities had the ability to cheaply travel into local urban centers to shop or work, there would not be as much emigration from the rural areas. If we cross reference the map from these notes and the map used on the [[Distances]] map it shows that the most growth happens near these stations and the surrounding area for the most part is next in line in population growth. The counties that are the farthest from rail lines typically have the least amount of growth or even a loss of population. There is no doubt a correlation between transit and rural communities. Communities with fairly good public transit have experienced staggering growth compared to locations with underdeveloped transit. But there I also a massive correlation between rural communities that are not well connected with other areas, which are also are areas with lower income. These are factors that are reoccurring and can not be ignored when looking at map data about population and income. While the addition of railways is not the only factor in population growth in rural communities, it is a common factor and a major one at that. for example, a couple rural communities in Arkansas actually grew significantly after the addition of so rail lines withing their local communities. while railways do have a positive impact on communities they are really limited by their lack of ability to penetrate thoroughly into communities, as well as it's infrastructure constraints and some socio economic factors. That's where I think it fails the most in regards to NC. Rail ways are much harder to build and maintains in NC regions like the Mountains as compared to busses which in comparison are much easier to maintain and use in that area. In conclusion I think that the connection between population trends, income trends, and migration trends are affected by public transit. I think that when we can acknowledge this and work with the data we have the ability to find the best places to put new transit and to help people that need it most. It will help the economy as well as create jobs and hopefully increase immigration. Rails have their short comings but work really well to connect people together and to help the working class and people of lower incomes to become more interconnected. 

