From these notes:[[Heavy Business]],[[What NC railways have done for the economy.]],[[NC Railways and their contribution to the statewide market]]



Rail systems in NC are a crucial and fundamental part of the travel of goods to different counties and municipalities. As previously stated, rail lines in NC have shipped over 45 million tons of cargo each year to locations in NC. this include crucial supplies, food, and construction materials. If we can expand this into more locations it will create massive benefits to local communities. Like with the plan to expand lines into Ashville as well as the edition of the western route from my notes. 860 businesses in NC currently load directly onto railways. With the addition of new railways this could open up whole new areas to this possibility for cargo transport and create more new jobs and forms of income for smaller communities. Cargo is currently unloaded in charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro, Hillsborough, and Raleigh. These are some of the most populated regions in the state. I don't think that is a coincidence but it is due to the fact that this is where good leave from or go to. There is a distinct relation between rail road goods and services that increases urbanization and can turn rural areas in to more urban areas. While I don't think al rural areas should turn urban because we do need our rural areas for farming and production of these goods, I do think that rural communities should have the opportunity to benefit from this as well.
